---
title: Making reading a habit
permalink: /reading/
---
2021 was the year I really got into reading. Or rather, when reading became a habit. In previous years I've read a few books here and there if I've had something recommended to me multiple times, or when the stars aligned, and I managed to gather enough momentum and willpower to pick up and sit down for long enough to see book all the way through. 

This has gradually changed to become something I do on a daily basis, as a means of relaxation, or increasingly to satisfy my curiosity. Looking back I had a number of insights in 2019 that helped initiate a shift in mindset:

- Reading should be relaxing
- Reading should be easy
- Reading should be accessible
- Reading should be rewarding
- Reading should be sustainable

These insights led me to make a couple of bets to further support reading taking a more prominent part in my life - create a fully digital library, and following my curiosity when deciding what to read.

## Digital library
When moving from Stockholm to Gothenburg I decided to sell all my physical books in favor of a digital library. On the surface this might seem like a trivial change, but it's proven to be a seismic shift in how I approach reading altogether. Key highlights include:

- Access to all books at any time
- Access to all books through a single device
- Shared library with my partner
- Instant access to new books
- Pleasant reading experience

## Guided by curiosity
Rather than reading things I felt obliged to read for one reason or another, I decided to try and only read books on topics that I was genuinely interested in. This decision has also come with a few second order consequences:

- It's ok to read only selected parts of a book
- It's ok to read several books at the same time
- It's ok to stop reading books that I don't find interesting
- It's ok to buy books and not read them
- It's ok to buy books at any time, with unlimited budget

## Result
The combination of a digital library and a generous reading policy largely guided by curiosity has fundamentally changed how I approach and enjoy reading altogether. I read more, and I can absorb and synthesize more of what I read. In 2019, I read 6 books. In 2020 the number came to 16. I've not yet summarized 2021, but it looks like yet another increase.  

Most importantly however, I now enjoy and look forward to reading.
